README.md, before:

# memory-capsule

**Memory Capsule** — An AI-powered app that analyzes your saved memories to reveal hidden patterns in your happiest moments. Add memories, upload photos, and let AI show you what truly makes you happy.

## How it works

- **Backend** is the middleman: **Browser → Flask → Groq API → back to you.**
- It saves memories to a JSON file (title, desc, date, place, mood, photo), loads them for the UI, and when you click **"Find my pattern"** it sends **all** your memories to Groq in one prompt.
- **Groq** answers one question: *"What pattern do you see in this person's happiest moments?"* and returns things that are hard to see yourself, e.g.:
  - "7 of your 10 memories involve family — never strangers"
  - "You feel happiest in quiet moments, not celebrations"
  - "Water appears in 60% of your peaceful memories"
  - "Your joy comes from creating or discovering — never from receiving"
- **Without AI** you only have a list. **With AI** you get self-knowledge from patterns across 10, 20, 50 memories. That’s the point of the app.

## Run the app

From the project root:

```bash
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
export GROQ_API_KEY=your_key_here   # or set in backend/.env
flask --app backend.app run
```

Then open http://127.0.0.1:5000

---

## Deploy on Render

Deploy the **entire project** (frontend + API) as one Web Service on [Render](https://render.com).

### One-click (Blueprint)

1. Push this repo to GitHub.
2. In [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com) → **New** → **Blueprint**.
3. Connect the repo; Render will read `render.yaml`.
4. Add env var **GROQ_API_KEY** (Dashboard → your service → Environment).
5. Deploy. Your app will be at `https://memory-capsule-xxxx.onrender.com`.

### Manual

1. **New** → **Web Service**; connect your GitHub repo.
2. **Runtime**: Python.
3. **Build command** (you can leave Render’s default or set explicitly):
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
   (Root `requirements.txt` installs from `backend/requirements.txt`.)
4. **Start command** (required — replace Render’s placeholder):
   ```bash
   gunicorn backend.app:app --bind 0.0.0.0:$PORT
   ```
   Do **not** use `gunicorn your_application.wsgi`; this app is `backend.app:app`.
5. **Environment**: add `GROQ_API_KEY` with your Groq API key.
6. Deploy.

### Notes

- **Root directory** stays empty so the repo root is used (backend, routes, frontend, storage, uploads all live there).
- On the free tier, the filesystem is **ephemeral**: memories and uploads are lost on deploy or restart. For persistence, use a **persistent disk**: add a disk in Render, mount it at `/data`, and set env var `DATA_DIR=/data` (see optional support in the app).

Commit message:

Enhance loading experience for Memory Capsule application by adding a full-screen loading overlay to handle server cold starts. Update frontend styles for loading indicators and implement timeout logic to manage loading state. Modify memory loading function to display appropriate messages during delays. Update README with information on initial load times on Render's free tier.

README.md, after:

# memory-capsule

**Memory Capsule** — An AI-powered app that analyzes your saved memories to reveal hidden patterns in your happiest moments. Add memories, upload photos, and let AI show you what truly makes you happy.

## How it works

- **Backend** is the middleman: **Browser → Flask → Groq API → back to you.**
- It saves memories to a JSON file (title, desc, date, place, mood, photo), loads them for the UI, and when you click **"Find my pattern"** it sends **all** your memories to Groq in one prompt.
- **Groq** answers one question: *"What pattern do you see in this person's happiest moments?"* and returns things that are hard to see yourself, e.g.:
  - "7 of your 10 memories involve family — never strangers"
  - "You feel happiest in quiet moments, not celebrations"
  - "Water appears in 60% of your peaceful memories"
  - "Your joy comes from creating or discovering — never from receiving"
- **Without AI** you only have a list. **With AI** you get self-knowledge from patterns across 10, 20, 50 memories. That’s the point of the app.

## Run the app

From the project root:

```bash
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt
export GROQ_API_KEY=your_key_here   # or set in backend/.env
flask --app backend.app run
```

Then open http://127.0.0.1:5000

---

## Deploy on Render

Deploy the **entire project** (frontend + API) as one Web Service on [Render](https://render.com).

### One-click (Blueprint)

1. Push this repo to GitHub.
2. In [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com) → **New** → **Blueprint**.
3. Connect the repo; Render will read `render.yaml`.
4. Add env var **GROQ_API_KEY** (Dashboard → your service → Environment).
5. Deploy. Your app will be at `https://memory-capsule-xxxx.onrender.com`.

### Manual

1. **New** → **Web Service**; connect your GitHub repo.
2. **Runtime**: Python.
3. **Build command** (you can leave Render’s default or set explicitly):
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
   (Root `requirements.txt` installs from `backend/requirements.txt`.)
4. **Start command** (required — replace Render’s placeholder):
   ```bash
   gunicorn backend.app:app --bind 0.0.0.0:$PORT
   ```
   Do **not** use `gunicorn your_application.wsgi`; this app is `backend.app:app`.
5. **Environment**: add `GROQ_API_KEY` with your Groq API key.
6. Deploy.

### Notes

- **Root directory** stays empty so the repo root is used (backend, routes, frontend, storage, uploads all live there).
- **First load can take 30–60 seconds** on Render’s free tier (server “cold start”). A loading screen explains this; if it stays blank, wait and refresh once.
- On the free tier, the filesystem is **ephemeral**: memories and uploads are lost on deploy or restart. For persistence, use a **persistent disk**: add a disk in Render, mount it at `/data`, and set env var `DATA_DIR=/data` (see optional support in the app).
